README.md, before:

# Chapter One React Native Task App

## Overview

This is a simple React Native to-do app created for Chapter One. It lets you manage a list of tasks with an intuitive mobile interface. All data is managed locally within the app and is not persisted across restarts.

## Features

-   **Add New Task:** Enter a title and add a task; the most recent appears first.
-   **Mark as Done/Undone:** Toggle a task's status by tapping the circle.
-   **Delete Task:** Remove any task using the trash button.
-   **Smart Ordering:** Incomplete tasks are shown at the top; completed ones below.
-   **Responsive & Accessible:** Buttons provide press feedback and have accessibility labels. Empty-state message is shown if you have no tasks.

## Setup & Running Instructions

1. **Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)** (if not already installed)
2. **Install Expo CLI** (if not already installed, globally):
    ```bash
    npm install -g expo-cli
    ```
3. **Install NPM Dependencies** (in the project directory):
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```
4. **Start the App:**
    ```bash
    npm start
    # or
    expo start
    ```
5. **Run on Device or Emulator:**
    - Scan the QR code with Expo Go (iOS/Android app), or
    - Press `a` for Android emulator, `i` for iOS simulator, or `w` for web (if available)

## Project Structure

-   `src/screens/Tasks.tsx`: The main app screen (home page)
-   `src/components/TaskItem.tsx`: Individual task row component
-   `src/components/AddTaskBar.tsx`: Task input bar component
-   `src/types/task.ts`: Central Task type definition

## Third-party Libraries

-   **[Expo](https://expo.dev/):** Development/build toolchain for React Native.
-   **[React Native](https://reactnative.dev/):** Main framework for building native mobile apps.
-   **react & @types/react:** Core React library (with TypeScript types for better developer experience).

**No additional third-party libraries** for tasks, sorting, or state management—the project uses only React and React Native core APIs for these features.

## Special Instructions

-   This project manages tasks only in local state (no database/file/network storage).
-   Changes are not saved if you close/restart the app.
-   For testing on a real device, install the Expo Go app from your device's app store.

---

Feel free to modify and extend this project for learning or experimentation!

Commit message:

Update README.md to reflect new features including task priority selection, filtering options, and dark theme enhancements, along with usage notes for improved user guidance.

README.md, after:

# Chapter One React Native Task App

## Overview

This is a simple React Native to-do app created for Chapter One. It lets you manage a list of tasks with an intuitive mobile interface. All data is managed locally within the app and is not persisted across restarts.

## Features

-   **Add New Task:** Enter a title and add a task; the most recent appears first.
-   **Priority on Add:** Choose High / Medium / Low when creating a task (defaults to Medium).
-   **Priority Filter:** Quickly filter the list by All / High / Medium / Low.
-   **Mark as Done/Undone:** Toggle a task's status by tapping the circle.
-   **Delete Task:** Remove any task using the trash button.
-   **Creation Date:** Each task shows the day it was created under the title.
-   **Smart Ordering:** Incomplete first, then completed; newest first within each group.
-   **Priority Badge:** A small colored badge (dot + text) on each task (High/Medium/Low).
-   **Dark Theme:** Navy background with warm off‑white text and subtle beige accents.
-   **Background Pattern:** A faint “tiny drawings” dot‑pattern overlay for texture.
-   **Responsive & Accessible:** Buttons provide press feedback and have accessibility labels. Empty-state message is shown if you have no tasks.
-   **Settings Button (placeholder):** Present in the header for future options.

## Setup & Running Instructions

1. **Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)** (if not already installed)
2. **Install Expo CLI** (if not already installed, globally):
    ```bash
    npm install -g expo-cli
    ```
3. **Install NPM Dependencies** (in the project directory):
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```
4. **Start the App:**
    ```bash
    npm start
    # or
    expo start
    ```
5. **Run on Device or Emulator:**
    - Scan the QR code with Expo Go (iOS/Android app), or
    - Press `a` for Android emulator, `i` for iOS simulator, or `w` for web (if available)

## Usage Notes

-   Use the input to type a task title, pick a priority (High/Medium/Low), then tap **Add** or press the return key.
-   Use the filter row (All/High/Medium/Low) to narrow the list by priority. Tap **All** to see everything again.
-   Tap the circular button to mark a task as done/undone. Tap the trash icon to delete a task.
-   Sorting is automatic: incomplete tasks at the top, completed at the bottom; newest first within each section.

## Project Structure

-   `src/screens/Tasks.tsx`: The main app screen (home page)
-   `src/components/TaskItem.tsx`: Individual task row component
-   `src/components/AddTaskBar.tsx`: Task input bar with priority selector
-   `src/types/task.ts`: Central Task and Priority type definitions

## Third-party Libraries

-   **[Expo](https://expo.dev/):** Development/build toolchain for React Native.
-   **[React Native](https://reactnative.dev/):** Main framework for building native mobile apps.
-   **react & @types/react:** Core React library (with TypeScript types for better developer experience).

**No additional third-party libraries** for tasks, sorting, or state management—the project uses only React and React Native core APIs for these features.

## Special Instructions

-   This project manages tasks only in local state (no database/file/network storage).
-   Changes are not saved if you close/restart the app.
-   For testing on a real device, install the Expo Go app from your device's app store.

---

Feel free to modify and extend this project for learning or experimentation!
